UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 
WASHINGTON, DC 20460 
Notification Label Revisions Requested v.20150904 
OFFICE OF CHEMICAL SAFETY AND POLLUTION PREVENTION 
October 19, 2015 
Ms. Georgia Anastasiou Agent For: BASF Corporation Lewis & Harrison 122 C Street, N.W.; Suite 505 Washington, DC 20001 
Subject: Notification per PRN 98-10 – Minor Edits per Request from the State of 
California Product Name: Aseptrol S10-Tab EPA Registration Number: 70060-19 Application Date: September 18, 2015 Decision Number: 509734 
Dear Ms. Anastasiou: 
The Agency is in receipt of your Application for Pesticide Notification under Pesticide Registration Notice (PRN) 98-10 for the above referenced product. The Antimicrobials Division (AD) has conducted a review of this request for its applicability under PRN 98-10 and finds that the action requested falls within the scope of PRN 98-10. The label submitted with the application has been stamped “Notification” and will be placed in our records. 
In addition, this letter serves as notice that the current label contains statements and/or images that were inadvertently approved by the Agency during its previous review. Please submit a revised label amendment addressing the inadvertently approved items below within 60 days of receipt of this letter. 
• While as are accepting the Product Label as it is in this instance, please know that the next time you amend this labeling you must also submit efficacy data to support the fogging method of application in order to bring this product in accordance with the April 1, 2013 Agency Letter from Dr. Melba Morrow for Fogging and Misting. 
Should you wish to add/retain a reference to the company’s website on your label, then please be aware that the website becomes labeling under the Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and is subject to review by the Agency. If the website is false or misleading, the product would be misbranded and unlawful to sell or distribute under FIFRA section 12(a)(1)(E). 40 CFR 156.10(a)(5) list examples of statements EPA may consider false or misleading. In addition, regardless of whether a website is referenced on your product’s label, claims made on the website may not substantially differ from those claims approved through the registration process. Therefore, should the Agency find or if it is brought to our attention that a website contains false or misleading statements or claims substantially differing from the EPA approved registration, the website will be referred to the EPA’s Office of Enforcement and Compliance. 
Page 2 of 2 EPA Reg. No. 70060-19 Decision No. 509734 
If you have any questions, you may contact Killian Swift at 703-308-6346 or via email at Swift.Killian@epa.gov. 
Sincerely, 
Demson Fuller, Product Manager 32 Regulatory Management Branch II Antimicrobials Division (7510P) Office of Pesticide Programs 
•All text in brackets [XXX] is alternate language that may or may not appear on final label. 
•All text in braces {XXX} is administrative and will not be on final label. 
If in eyes: 
FIRST AID 
Aseptrol S10-Tab 
▪ Hold eye open and rinse slowly and gently with water for 15-20 
Disinfectant/ Virucidal*/ Tuberculocidal‡/ Sterilant/ minutes. 
▪ Remove contact lenses, if present, after the first 5 minutes, then continue rinsing eye. 
▪ Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice. 
Food-Contact Surface [and Potable Water Tank] Sanitizer Oxidizing Tablets For Use in Hospitals, Medical, Dental, Industrial, If on skin or clothing: 
Manufacturing and Institutional Facilities, Ion 
▪ Take off contaminated clothing. 
Exchange Resin Beds, Laboratory Animal Facilities, 
▪ Rinse skin immediately with plenty of water for 15-20 minutes. 
▪ Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice. 
Clinical and Research Laboratories, Veterinary Hospitals and Clinics and Animal Rearing and 
If swallowed: 
Confinement Facilities. 
▪ Call a poison control center or doctor immediately for treatment advice. 
▪ Have person sip a glass of water if able to swallow. 
▪ Do not induce vomiting unless told to do so by a poison control center or doctor. 
▪ Do not give anything by mouth to an unconscious person. 
Active Ingredients Sodium Chlorite........................................ 20.8% Sodium Dichloroisocyanurate dihydrate........... 7.0% Other Ingredients..................................... 72.2% If inhaled: 
Total..................................................... 100.0% 
▪ Move person to fresh air. 
▪ If person is not breathing, call 911 or an ambulance, then give artificial respiration, preferably by mouth-to-mouth, if possible. 
▪ Call a poison control center or doctor for further treatment advice. 
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN 
Have the product container or label with you when calling poison control 
DANGER center or doctor, or going for treatment. 
For emergency information on product, use, etc., call the National Pesticides Information Hotline at 1-800-858-7378 or 1-800-222-1222. 
See [side] {or} [back] panel for first aid and precautionary statements. 
NOTE TO PHYSICIAN 
[Use only in accordance with directions and 
Probable mucosal damage may contraindicate the use of gastric lavage. 
precautions on outer container] 
PRECAUTIONARY STATEMENTS 
[Not For Individual Sale] Hazards to Humans and Domestic Animals 
DANGER. CORROSIVE. Causes irreversible eye damage and skin burns. Harmful if swallowed or absorbed through skin. Wear protective goggles or face shield. Wear coveralls, over long-sleeved shirt and long pants, socks, chemical resistant footwear, and rubber gloves. Wash thoroughly with soap and water after handling and before eating, 
EPA Reg. No. 70060-19 EPA Est. No. Net Weight: drinking, chewing gum, using tobacco, or using the toilet. Remove contaminated clothing and wash clothing before reuse. 
{Expiration Date:} 
Handlers applying in an occupation setting must wear gloves 
Manufactured by: 
{When using the fogging method of application, the following statement will be used:} Harmful if inhaled: Avoid breathing dust or spray mist. People must 
BASF Corporation 100 Park Avenue Florham Park, NJ 07932 vacate the premises during fogging treatments; a one-hour restricted entry interval (REI) is required. 
Patent: 6,699,404 
ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS This product is toxic to fish and aquatic organisms. 
[contains] {If container size is greater than 50 lbs add the following statement to the above statement:} Do not discharge effluent containing this product into lakes, streams, ponds, estuaries, oceans or other waters unless in accordance with the requirements of a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit and the permitting authority has been notified in writing prior to discharge. Do not discharge effluent containing this product to 
[Aseptrol and the Aseptrol logo are registered trademarks of BASF] sewer systems without previously notifying the local sewage treatment plant authority. For guidance, contact your State Water Board or Regional Office of the EPA. 
[Sodium Chlorite in this product is from Spain] 
Aseptrol S10-Tab (70060-19) –Notification 09-02-2015 Page 1 of 5 
70060-19 
10/19/2015 
•All text in brackets [XXX] is alternate language that may or may not appear on final label. 
•All text in braces {XXX} is administrative and will not be on final label. 
Aseptrol S10-Tab is a unique formulation of sodium chlorite that rapidly 
Aseptrol S10-Tabs can be used as a disinfectant/virucide*/tuberculocide‡ produces the biocidal agent chlorine dioxide when mixed with water. 
in Hospitals, Medical, Dental, Industrial, Institutional and Manufacturing *A 100 ppm use-solution of chlorine dioxide has been shown to be 
Facilities, Laboratory Animal Facilities, Clinical and Research effective against: Vaccinia virus, Human Influenza A virus (Hong Kong), 
Laboratories, Veterinary Clinics and Hospitals, Animal Rearing and Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome virus (PRRSV), 
Confinement Facilities, Animal Research Facilities and Laboratories, and Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), Marek’s disease virus (MDV), Avian 
other institutional/industrial applications that involve the housing of Influenza A (H3N2) virus, Porcine circovirus type 2, Canine Parvovirus, 
animals. Hantavirus, Minute Virus of Mouse (Parvovirus) (MVM-p), Minute Virus of Mouse (Parvovirus) (MVM-i), Mouse Hepatitis Virus (MHV-A59), Mouse 
Aseptrol S10-Tab can also be used as a sterilant in manufacturing Hepatitis Virus (MHV-JHM), Mouse Parvovirus type 1 (MPV-1), Murine 
facilities, clinical laboratories and Biosafety Level 3 and 4 (BSL-3 and BSL- Parainfluenza Virus Type 1 (Sendai), Sialodacryoadenitis Virus 
4) facilities. (Coronavirus) (SDAV), Theiler’s Mouse Encephalomyelitis Virus (TMEV), Corynebacterium bovis, and Helicobacter pylori after 10 minutes of contact 
*Respiratory illnesses attributable to Pandemic 2009 H1N1 are caused by and Foot and Mouth Disease Virus after 30 minutes of contact. 
influenza A virus. Aseptrol S10-Tab is a broad-spectrum hard surface disinfectant that has been shown to be effective against Influenza A virus A 200 ppm use-solution of chlorine dioxide is a broad spectrum 
(Hong Kong) and is expected to inactivate all influenza A viruses including disinfectant effective against *Hepatitis B Virus, *Hepatitis C Virus, 
Pandemic 2009 H1N1 (formerly called swine flu). *Newcastle Disease virus, *Norovirus, *Human coronavirus, and the following gram negative and gram positive bacteria: Escherichia coli 
*Aseptrol S10-Tab has demonstrated effectiveness against Influenza A O157:H7, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella 
virus (Hong Kong) and is expected to inactivate all influenza A viruses enterica, and Bordetella bronchiseptica after 10 minutes of contact. The 
including Pandemic 2009 H1N1 (formerly called swine flu). 200 ppm use-solution is also effective against Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Enterococcus faecalis (VRE) after 5 minutes of contact, 
DIRECTIONS FOR USE tuberculocidal‡ against Mycobacterium bovis‡ after 5 minutes of contact at 
It is a violation of Federal law to use this product in a manner inconsistent 20oC and *virucidal against *HIV-1 (the virus that causes AIDS) after 1 
with its labeling. minute of contact and *Feline Panleukopenia virus, *Pseudorabies, 
PREPARATION OF USE-SOLUTION: *Transmissible Gastroenteritis virus and *Swine Influenza A Virus after 5 
25 ppm Chlorine Dioxide (for sanitization of hard, nonporous food minutes of contact. 
contact surfaces, including surfaces containing Salmonella enterica and Listeria monocytogenes). A complete list of organisms and treatment conditions are shown in the 
In a clean plastic pail, place either one (1) 400 mg Aseptrol S10-Tab for table below. 
every quart (liter) of clean, potable water, or one (1) 1.5 gram Aseptrol Viruses*: Use-Dilution 
Time 
S10-Tab for every gallon of clean potable water or one (1) 6.0 gram (ppm) 
(minutes) 
Aseptrol S10-Tab for every 4 gallons of clean potable water. Or, in a *Minute Virus of Mouse (Parvovirus) (MVM-p) † 100 10 *Minute Virus of Mouse (Parvovirus) (MVM-i) † 100 10 *Mouse Hepatitis Virus (MHV-A59) † 100 10 *Mouse Hepatitis Virus (MHV-JHM) † 100 10 *Murine Parainfluenza Virus Type 1 (Sendai) † 100 10 *Sialodacryoadenitis Virus (Coronavirus) (SDAV) † 100 10 *Theiler’s Mouse Encephalomyelitis Virus (TMEV) † 100 10 *Avian Influenza A (H3N2) virus 100 10 *Canine Parvovirus† 100 10 *Feline Panleukopenia virus† 200 5 *Foot & Mouth Disease virus 100 or 200 30 
plastic pigmented spray bottle, place either one (1) 400 mg Aseptrol S10- Tab for every quart (liter) of clean, potable water, or one (1) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every gallon (4 liters) of clean, potable water or one (1) 6.0 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every four gallons (15.14 liters) of clean, potable water. Prepare in a well ventilated area. Wait either 5 minutes for the 400 mg tab to completely dissolve, 10 minutes for the 1.5 gram tab and 15 minutes for the 6.0 gram tab to completely dissolve. Once dissolved, this will yield a working solution of 25 ppm of free chlorine dioxide. Once mixed, this solution should be stored in a tightly covered container and used within 7 days. *Hantavirus *Hepatitis B Virus *Hepatitis C Virus 100 200 200 10 10 10 
100 ppm Chlorine Dioxide (for control of *Foot and Mouth Disease Virus, *Human Influenza A virus (Hong Kong), *Avian Influenza A *HIV-1 200 1 
(H3N2) virus and animal viruses†). *Human Coronavirus 200 10 
In a clean plastic pail or plastic pigmented 1 gallon bottle, place either four *Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV)† 100 10 
(4) 400 mg Aseptrol S10-Tabs for every quart (liter), or one (1) 6.0 gram *Influenza A virus (Hong Kong) 100 *Marek’s disease virus (MDV) † 100 *Newcastle Disease virus† 200 *Norovirus 200 *Porcine circovirus type 2† 100 *Transmissible Gastroenteritis Virus 200 *Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome virus (PRRSV) † 
10 10 5 10 10 5 
Aseptrol S10-Tab or four (4) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every gallon (4 liters) of clean potable water. {or} [In a plastic pigmented spray bottle, place either four (4) 400 mg Aseptrol S10-Tabs for every quart (liter) of clean, potable water, or one (1) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every quart (or liter) of clean, potable water.] Prepare in a well ventilated area. Once dissolved, this will yield a working solution of 100 ppm of free chlorine dioxide. Wait either 5 minutes for the 400 mg tabs to completely dissolve, or 10 minutes for the 1.5 gram tab and 15 minutes for the 6 gram tab to completely dissolve. Once mixed, this solution should be stored in a tightly covered container and used within 7 days. 
200 ppm Chlorine Dioxide (for disinfection of hard, nonporous surfaces and instruments, and to kill tuberculosis bacteria‡, *Human coronavirus, *HIV-1, *Hepatitis B Virus, *Hepatitis C Virus, *Transmissible Gastroenteritis Virus, *Feline Panleukopenia Virus, *Newcastle Disease virus, *Norovirus, *Pseudorabies, and *Swine Influenza A Virus). In a clean plastic pail or plastic pigmented 1 gallon bottle, place either two (2) 6.0 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab or eight (8) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every gallon (4 liters), or four (4) 400 mg Aseptrol S10-Tabs for every pint (or 500 ml) of clean, potable water. Or, in a plastic pigmented spray bottle, place either four (4) 400 mg Aseptrol S10-Tab for every pint (500 ml) of clean, potable water, or one (1) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every pint (or 500 ml) of clean, potable water. Prepare in a well ventilated area. Wait either 5 minutes for the 400 mg tabs to completely dissolve, or 10 minutes for the 1.5 gram tab and 15 minutes for the 6 gram tab to completely dissolve. Once dissolved, this will yield a working solution containing 200 ppm of free chlorine dioxide. Once mixed, this solution should be stored in 
Aseptrol S10-Tab (70060-19) –Notification 09-02-2015 Page 2 of 5 
100 10 
*Pseudorabies† 200 5 *Swine Influenza A Virus† 200 5 *Vaccinia virus 50 or 100 10 Bacteria (Disinfectant): 
Bordetella bronchiseptica 200 10 Corynebacterium bovis 100 10 Enterococcus faecalis Vancomycin Resistant 200 5 Escherichia coli O157:H7 200 10 Helicobacter pylori 100 10 Mycobacterium bovis‡ 200 5 Pseudomonas aeruginosa 200 10 Salmonella enterica 200 10 Staphylococcus aureus 200 10 Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) 100 or 200 10 Staphylococcus aureus Methicillin Resistant 200 5 Bacteria (Sanitizer): 
Salmonella enterica 25 1 Listeria monocytogenes 25 1 † = animal viruses ‡ = tuberculocidal against Mycobacterium bovis 
•All text in brackets [XXX] is alternate language that may or may not appear on final label. 
•All text in braces {XXX} is administrative and will not be on final label. 

1000 ppm Chlorine Dioxide (for surface sterilization). In a clean plastic pail or plastic pigmented 1 gallon bottle, place eight (8) 6.0 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every gallon of clean potable water or eight (8) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every liter of clean potable water. Or, in a plastic pigmented spray bottle, place one (1) 6.0 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab for every pint (or 500 ml) of clean, potable water. Prepare in a well ventilated area. Wait 15 minutes for the 6 gram tab to completely dissolve. Once dissolved, this will yield a working solution containing 1000 ppm of free chlorine dioxide. Prepare fresh solutions daily. 
LABORATORY ANIMAL FACILITIES, ANIMAL REARING FACILITIES AND ANIMAL RESEARCH FACILITIES AND LABORATORIES Use Aseptrol S10-Tab to disinfect and kill tuberculosis bacteria‡, *HIV-1, *Human coronavirus, *Hepatitis B Virus, *Hepatitis C Virus, *Newcastle Disease virus, *Norovirus, *Foot and Mouth Disease Virus, *Human Influenza A virus (Hong Kong), *Avian Influenza A (H3N2) virus and animal viruses† on hard non-porous surfaces such as floors, walls, counters, stainless steel environmental surfaces, bio-safety hoods, sinks, tiles, cages, coops, crates, kennels, instruments and utensils. Preclean surfaces and then apply either a 100 ppm chlorine dioxide solution (for *Human Influenza A virus (Hong Kong), *Avian Influenza A (H3N2) virus and animal viruses†) or 200 ppm chlorine dioxide solution (for disinfection, *HIV-1, *Human coronavirus and TB‡ control). Apply the use-solution with a cloth, mop, sponge or sprayer or by immersion. Treated surfaces must remain wet for 10 minutes (30 minutes for *Foot and Mouth Disease Virus). Wipe dry with a cloth, sponge or mop or allow to air dry. For sprayer applications, use a coarse spray device. Spray 6-8 inches from the surface and spray until totally wet. Do not breathe spray. Allow to air dry. 
ANIMAL ROOM DISINFECTION DIRECTIONS USING AN ULTRA LOW VOLUME FOGGING DEVICE Remove all animals and feed from animal room, vehicles and enclosures. Remove all litter from floors, walls and surfaces of the room to be treated. Empty all feeding and watering appliances. Thoroughly clean all surfaces with soap or detergent and rinse with water. Close room off so fog is confined to room to be treated. Mix two (2) 6 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab or eight (8) 1.5 gram Aseptrol S10-Tab into one gallon of water making a 200 ppm solution of chlorine dioxide. Place Ultra Low Volume (ULV) fogger in center of room or insert the nozzle of the fogger through a suitable opening into the room. With the Flow Rate setting in HIGH output, apply fog for 15 minutes for each 3000 cubic feet of space in the room, thorough wetting of all surfaces is required. 
NOTE: The fog generated is irritating to the eyes, skin and mucous membranes. Do not allow people to enter treated room until [ten air exchanges] [2 hours of mechanical ventilation (i.e., fans)] [4 hours of passive ventilation (i.e., windows, vents)] [11 hours of no ventilation followed by 1 hour of mechanical ventilation (i.e., fans)] [11hours of no ventilation followed by 2 hours of passive ventilation (i.e., windows, vents)] [24 hours of no ventilation]. If the building must be entered, then the individuals entering the building must wear a self contained respirator approved by NIOSH/MSHA, goggles, long sleeves and long pants. 
FOGGING IS TO BE USED AS AN ADJUNCT TO ACCEPTABLE MANUAL CLEANING AND DISINFECTING FOR ROOM AND MACHINE SURFACES. 
a tightly covered container and used within 7 days. 
INSTITUTIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES Use Aseptrol S10-Tab to disinfect pre-cleaned surfaces in institutional and industrial facilities such as office buildings, food- processing plants, schools, hotels and motels, recreational facilities, recreational centers, institutional kitchens, supermarkets, grocery stores, boats, public facilities and military installations. Apply a 200 ppm chlorine dioxide use-solution to hard, non- porous surfaces thoroughly wetting surfaces with a cloth, mop, sponge or sprayer or by immersion. Treated surfaces must remain wet for 10 minutes (30 minutes for *Foot and Mouth Disease Virus). Wipe dry with a cloth, sponge or mop or allow to air dry. For sprayer applications, use a coarse spray device. Spray 6-8 inches from the surface and spray until totally wet. Do not breathe spray. Allow to air dry. A potable water rinse is required for any surface that may come into contact with food. 
HEALTH-CARE and VETERINARY FACILITIES Use Aseptrol S10-Tab to disinfect pre-cleaned surfaces and to decontaminate instruments in hospitals, medical and dental offices, veterinary offices, veterinary clinics, veterinary hospitals and related facilities. Apply a 200 ppm chlorine dioxide use- solution to hard, non-porous surfaces and/or instruments thoroughly wetting surfaces with a cloth, mop, sponge or sprayer or by immersion. Treated surfaces must remain wet for 10 minutes (30 minutes for Foot and Mouth Disease Virus). Wipe dry with a cloth, sponge or mop or allow to air dry. For sprayer applications, use a coarse spray device. Spray 6-8 inches from the surface and spray until totally wet. Do not breathe spray. Allow to air dry. The 200 ppm chlorine dioxide use-solution is effective against gram negative and gram positive bacteria, HIV-1, *Human coronavirus, *Hepatitis B Virus, *Hepatitis C Virus, *Newcastle Disease virus, Norovirus, *Foot and Mouth Disease Virus, *Human Influenza A virus (Hong Kong), *Avian Influenza A (H3N2) virus, animal viruses† and tuberculosis bacteria‡. 
This product is not be used as a terminal sterilant/high-level disinfectant on any surface or instrument that (1) is introduced directly into the human body, either into or in contact with the bloodstream or normally sterile areas of the body, or (2) contacts intact mucous membranes but which does not ordinarily penetrate the blood barrier or otherwise enter normally sterile areas of the body. This product may be used to decontaminate precleaned critical or semi-critical medical devices prior to sterilization or high- level disinfection. 
FOOD-CONTACT SURFACE SANITIZER Use Aseptrol S10-Tab to sanitize hard, nonporous food-contact surfaces and utensils (such as food processing equipment, dairy equipment, food utensils, dishes, silverware, glasses, sink tops, countertops, refrigerated storage and display equipment and other hard surfaces) in food processing plants, breweries, bottling plants, restaurants and other food-handling establishments. 
Prior to application, remove gross food particles and soil by a pre- flush, or pre-scrape and, when necessary, pre-soak. Then thoroughly wash or flush surfaces with a good detergent or compatible cleaner followed by a potable water rinse before application of the sanitizer solution. Apply a use-solution of 25 ppm chlorine dioxide to pre-cleaned hard surfaces thoroughly wetting surfaces with a cloth, mop, sponge, coarse sprayer or by immersion. Surfaces must remain wet for at least 60 seconds and then followed by adequate draining and air drying. Do not rinse. 

Aseptrol S10-Tab (70060-19) –Notification 09-02-2015 Page 3 of 5 
•All text in brackets [XXX] is alternate language that may or may not appear on final label. 
•All text in braces {XXX} is administrative and will not be on final label. 
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR CLEANING AND POTABLE WATER TANK SANITIZER ABOARD AIRCRAFT, 
DISINFECTING AREAS WHICH MAY BE INFESTED WITH BOATS AND [RECREATIONAL VEHICLES] {or} [RV’s] 
HANTAVIRUS Use Aseptrol S-10 Tab to sanitize potable water tanks. Prior to 
Infection with Hantavirus occurs by inhalation of infectious sanitizing, empty potable water tank and fill with clean water. 
materials. Persons involved in the clean-up must wear coveralls Preparation of Use-Solution: Prepare in well ventilated area. For 
(disposable, if possible), rubber boots or disposable shoe covers, every 30 gallons of tank capacity place 71 grams Aseptrol S-10 
rubber or plastic gloves, protective goggles, and an appropriate Tab (1 packet) in a clean plastic pail and dissolve with one gallon 
respiratory protection device, such as a half-mask air-purifying (or of clean water. Wait 10 - 15 minutes for the Aseptrol S-10 Tab to 
negative-pressure) respirator with a high-efficiency particulate air completely dissolve. Once added to tank this will yield a working 
(HEPA) filter or a powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) with solution of 50 ppm free chlorine dioxide. 
HEPA filters. Add prepared use-solution to the tank and allow to soak at least 60 seconds. Empty tank and flush with clean water to rinse. 
All potential infective waste material (including respirator filters) from clean-up operations that cannot be burned or deep buried on SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR CLEANING AND 
site must be double bagged in appropriate plastic bags. The DECONTAMINATION AGAINST HIV-1, HBV & HCV ON 
bagged material must then be labeled as infectious (if it is to be SURFACES/OBJECTS SOILED WITH BLOOD/BODY FLUIDS 
transported) and disposed of in accordance with local that involve healthcare settings, or other settings in which there is 
requirements for infectious waste. an expected likelihood of soiling of inanimate surfaces/objects with blood or body fluids, and in which the surfaces/objects soiled 
Rodent dropping and visible dust may be reservoirs for with blood or body fluids can be associated with the transmission 
Hantavirus. If you are cleaning out a building that has been of HIV-1, HBV and HCV. Aseptrol S10-Tab destroys HIV-1, HBV 
closed up, such as a cabin, shed, or garage: and HCV on pre-cleaned environmental surfaces/objects 
A. Air out building for at least 30 minutes by opening windows and previously soiled with blood or other body fluids at 200 ppm and 1 
doors. minute contact (10 minutes for HBV and HCV). 
B. Leave the building while it is airing out. PERSONAL PROTECTION: The worker should wear disposable 
C. Do not vacuum, sweep or dust. This may spread the virus latex gloves, gown, mask and eye protection to prevent 
through the air. contamination from soiled items. 
D. Thoroughly wet the contaminated areas with Aseptrol S10- CLEANING PROCEDURE: Blood and other body fluids must be 
Tab and allow to stand undisturbed for 10 minutes. thoroughly cleaned from surfaces and objects before application 
E. Carefully remove non-salvageable contaminated material and of Aseptrol S10-Tab solution. 
dispose by burial or burning. Contact your local and state CONTACT TIME: Allow Aseptrol S10-Tab solution to contact 
health department for additional disposal methods. treated items for 1 minute (10 minutes for HBV and HCV). A 
F. Treat the surface again following the label directions and allow contact time of 1 minute will not control other common types of 
to stand undisturbed for 10 minutes. viruses and bacteria. 
For additional guidance visit CDC website at DISPOSAL OF INFECTIOUS MATERIALS: Any blood and other 
www.cdc.gov/hantavirus. body fluids should be autoclaved and disposed of according to federal, state, and local regulations for infectious waste disposal. 
Aseptrol S10-Tab (70060-19) –Notification 09-02-2015 Page 4 of 5 
•All text in brackets [XXX] is alternate language that may or may not appear on final label. 
•All text in braces {XXX} is administrative and will not be on final label. 
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL SURFACE STERILIZATION 
This product is toxic to fish and aquatic organisms. Use Aseptrol S10-Tab where sterility conditions are critical for 
Do not contaminate water, food or feed by storage or disposal. optimum performance, such as manufacturing and laboratory equipment, and in areas where sterilization is required, such as 
PESTICIDE STORAGE: Store this product in a cool, dry area Level 3 and 4 Biosafety Level (BSL-3 and BSL-4) facilities. Use 
away from direct sunlight and heat to avoid deterioration and in an Aseptrol S10-Tab on hard, non-porous surfaces such as plastics 
area inaccessible to children. (polystyrene, polypropylene, polyvinyl chlorides, polyesters) stainless steel, sealed fiberglass, glazed ceramic, metal or glass. 
PESTICIDE DISPOSAL: Pesticide wastes are acutely hazardous. Do not use Aseptrol S10-Tab as a terminal high-level disinfectant 
Improper disposal of excess pesticide, spray mixture, or rinsate is or sterilant on any critical/semi-critical medical device or 
a violation of Federal law. If these wastes cannot be disposed of instrument. Prior to use, thoroughly pre-clean surface to be 
by use according to label instructions, contact your State Pesticide sterilized. This can be accomplished by rinsing with purified 
or Environmental Control Agency, or the Hazardous Waste water, mechanical action or by detergent cleaning followed by a 
representative at the nearest EPA Regional Office for guidance. water rinse. Pre-cleaned surfaces may be allowed to air dry or may be towel dried but do not dry surfaces using dry heat. 
CONTAINER DISPOSAL: Non-refillable [container] [pouch] Prepare a 1000 ppm use-solution of chlorine dioxide by following 
[blister pack] [packet]. Do not reuse or refill this [container] [pouch] the instructions under “Preparation of Use Solution” on this label. 
[blister pack] [packet]. Offer for recycling, if available. If recycling Apply the 1000 ppm chlorine dioxide use-solution by either 
is not available, dispose [empty pouch] [blister pack] [container] in thoroughly soaking the target surface or by immersion. All target 
sanitary landfill or by incineration. surfaces must be exposed to treatment solution for at least 1 hour. Allow to air dry. 
For Use in Controlling Odor-Causing Microorganisms In Residential and Industrial Ion Exchange Resins Beds During Regeneration Use Instructions: 1. Close inlet and outlet water valves to prefilter housing or 
tablet doser housing. 2. Remove bowl from either the prefilter housing or the tablet 
doser housing. 3. Empty water from bowl. 4. For each cubic foot of Ion Exchange Resin, add 6 grams 
(0.21 oz.) of Aseptrol S10-Tab to the bowl. 5. Replace bowl on housing and open water valves. 6. Proceed with normal regeneration cycle. Or 1. Remove the cover from the brine tank. 2. For each cubic foot of Ion Exchange Resin, add 6 grams 
(0.21 oz.) of Aseptrol S10-Tab to the brine well of the brine tank. 3. Do not place Aseptrol S10-Tab onto dry salt – MUST BE 
PLACED IN LIQUID ONLY. 4. Cover brine tank and proceed with normal regeneration cycle. 
Aseptrol S10-Tab (70060-19) –Notification 09-02-2015 Page 5 of 5 
